AGP-118: Aragon Comprehensive Legal Review Program (#118)
aragon/AGPs: AGPs/AGP-Comprehensive-Aragon-Legal-Review-Program.md

---
AGP: N/A
Title: Aragon Comprehensive Legal Review Program
Author: burrrata (@burrrata)
Status: Stage IV
Track: Association
Created: 2019-10-02
---

# AGP-X: Aragon Comprehensive Legal Review Program

## Description of desired Association policy change

> Fund up to 3-5 hours of legal council for every Aragon application funded by the Aragon Association via an AGP, the Nest program, or the Flock program. This council would cover the following points:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fund up to five hours of legal council for every Aragon application funded by the Aragon Association via an AGP, the Nest program, or the Flock program. This council would cover the following points:
```

Reviewer: Since it says "up to", simply putting the upper limit of five hours authorized to be funded removes any ambiguity about whether three or five is the upper limit.

Author: Good call. Thanks

- if developers would be held liable for shipping the application
- if users would be held liable for using the application, and if so what use cases would fall under what rules
- creating a disclaimer that can be attached to Aragon apps releasing developers of any liabilities and informing users to do their own research

## Motivation for changing this Association policy
Aragon apps are cool. Aragon apps are fun. Aragon apps are, legally compliant?

> Aragon exists to allow anyone anywhere to organize freely. Just passing votes and making decisions is fairly non controversial. When money is attached to those votes, things are different. In many parts of the world there are strict rules as to what you can and cannot do with money. This is currently a legally grey area as tokens may or may not be classified as money, commodities, securities, or even other things depending on your jurisdiction. This is frustrating and nerve-racking for Aragon application developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aragon exists to allow anyone anywhere to organize freely. Just passing votes and making decisions is fairly non-controversial. When money is attached to those votes, things are different. In many parts of the world there are strict rules as to what you can and cannot do with money. This is currently a legally grey area as tokens may or may not be classified as money, commodities, securities, or even other things depending on your jurisdiction. This is frustrating and nerve-racking for Aragon application developers.
```
